New voting tutorial (#12)
onflow/flow-playground-tutorials: tutorials/07-voting/README.md

---
title: 9. Voting Contract
---

With the advent of blockchain technology and smart contracts,
it has become popular to try to create decentralized voting mechanisms that allow large groups of users to vote completely on chain.
This tutorial will provide a trivial example for how this might be achieved by using a resource-oriented programming model.
Two contracts will allow users to vote on multiple proposals while their voting power is determined by the balance of certain tokens. 

> These so called governance tokens track the user account balance over time, thus enabling insight into the balance just before the creation of a proposal. 

Reviewer: Also, it would be good to mention that this tutorial provides an introduction to the CLI and emulator

Reviewer: And mention here that we are assuming that the user understands how the fungible token standard works and if they don't, they need to go to a link that you provide

An administration contract serves for the creation of proposals and provides the ballots.

---
We'll take you through these steps to get comfortable with the voting contracts.

1. Deploy the contracts to the local blockchain emulator
2. Create two user accounts
3. Create voter accounts for these users
4. Mint tokens to these accounts
5. Create proposals for users to vote on
6. Create `Ballot` resources for both voters
7. Record and cast votes in the central voting contract
8. Read the results of the vote

## Setup the environment

> In this tutorial, we are introducing the [Flow CLI](https://developers.flow.com/tools/flow-cli/index), which allows us to run our code on a local blockchain emulator. 

Reviewer: I think we need a little bigger description of the CLI and emulator. For example, explain that the CLI is a easy way to run transactions, scripts, query state from any blockchain instance, including mainnet, testnet, and the emulator. And the emulator runs a simplified local blockchain for testing but still has most of the same interfaces and functionality

Please follow the link and install it on your computer. You should now be able to call it by simply entering `flow`, which will show you a list with all commands.
The CLI also contains the blockchain emulator, please take a look at the [Flow CLI subsection](https://developers.flow.com/tools/flow-cli/start-emulator) for a brief overview, more details are covered in the [ReadMe](https://github.com/onflow/flow-emulator/#readme).

Once installed, please download the project in the terminal by executing `git clone git@github.com:onflow/flow-playground-tutorials.git`, and then go to the project folder: `cd tutorials/08-voting`. 
Once there, please execute this command which will create an initial configuration:

```console

> flow init

Reviewer: need more context on what `flow init` does

```

> Then, edit the configuration and add both the `contracts` and the `deployments` section, this is needed for the deployment of the project:

Reviewer: We need a description about what flow.json is used for and what the different fields are

```json:title=flow.json
{
    "contracts": {
        "FungibleToken": "./contracts/FungibleToken.cdc",
        "VotingTutorialAdministration": "./contracts/VotingTutorialAdministration.cdc",
        "VotingTutorialGovernanceToken": "./contracts/VotingTutorialGovernanceToken.cdc"
    },
    //...networks, accounts...
    },
    "deployments": {
        "emulator": {
            "emulator-account": [
                "FungibleToken",
                "VotingTutorialGovernanceToken",
                "VotingTutorialAdministration"
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

## Run the emulator

Once the configuration is saved, you can start the emulator:

```console

> flow emulator

Reviewer: more context on what `flow emulator` does

```

## Deploy the project

Open another terminal window (check that you remain in the project folder) and deploy the project:

```console
flow project deploy

> ```

Reviewer: need more context on what `flow project deploy` does.

All three contracts should be deployed now.
FungibleToken is a Cadence standard, while `VotingTutorialGovernanceToken` and `VotingTutorialAdministration` are specific to this tutorial.

> `VotingTutorialGovernanceToken` is needed in order to vote, it's balance is determining the weight of the vote.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`VotingTutorialGovernanceToken` is needed in order to vote, its balance determines the weight of the vote.
```

`VotingTutorialAdministration` is used for administration of the whole voting process.

> `VotingTutorialGovernanceToken` contains the usual vault functionality of the FungibleToken contract and adds a history of voting weight that is updated on each transfer.

Reviewer: We need a lot more than just a one sentence description of what the contract does. We need you to explain that most of it is identical to a regular fungible token implmentation, but then also walk through each important part that has been added for governance and explain what each of those is for, with code snippet examples to illustrate it

Author: I now added more explanation and code snippets.

        self.account.save(<-vault, to: self.VaultStoragePath)

        /// Create a public capability to the stored Vault that exposes VotingWeight
        self.account.link<&VotingTutorialGovernanceToken.Vault{FungibleToken.Provider, FungibleToken.Receiver, FungibleToken.Balance, VotingTutorialGovernanceToken.VotingWeight}>(VotingTutorialGovernanceToken.VaultPublicPath, target: VotingTutorialGovernanceToken.VaultStoragePath)

        /// Create a new Minter resource and store it in account storage
        self.account.save(<-create VaultMinter(), to: self.MinterStoragePath)

        /// Emit initialization event
        emit TokensInitialized(initialSupply: self.totalSupply)
    }
}
```

`VotingTutorialAdministration` contains a struct `ProposalData` which is used to store both the proposal and the total votes.
Then we have two resources, a `Ballot` and an `Administrator` resource.
A user can request a `Ballot`, and then vote for a proposal, effectively tallying the vote weight in this contract.
Using a resource type is logical for this application, because if a user wants to delegate their vote, they can send that `Ballot` to another account.

> Access to the `Administrator` resource is needed in order to add proposals.

Reviewer: Same comment applies here that I made about the token contract. We need a whole long section here that goes into detail about each part of the contract and explains each feature with code samples.

Author: I have now included one code snippet. More snippets would result pretty quick in pasting the whole contract code I think. Instead, I resorted to describe the various components in more detail.

                    panic("Proposal with this key already exists")
                }
                VotingTutorialAdministration.proposals[key] = proposals[key]
            }
        }
    }

    /// issueBallot creates a new Ballot
    pub fun issueBallot(recipientCap: Capability<&VotingTutorialGovernanceToken.Vault{VotingTutorialGovernanceToken.VotingWeight}>): @Ballot {
        return <-create Ballot(recipientCap: recipientCap)
    }

    /// Initializes the contract by setting empty proposals,
    /// assigning the paths and creating a new Admin resource and saving it in account storage
    init() {
        self.proposals = {}

        self.ballotStoragePath = /storage/CadenceVotingTutorialBallotStoragePath
        self.adminStoragePath = /storage/CadenceVotingTutorialAdminStoragePath

        self.account.save<@Administrator>(<-create Administrator(), to: self.adminStoragePath)
    }
}
```

## Create two extra accounts ('acct2', 'acct3')

The following command creates a user account, you need to execute it twice, once for account 'acct2', and again for 'acct3'.
When asked, please choose the option *Local Emulator*.

```console

> flow accounts create

Reviewer: need more context on what `flow accounts create` does
